Mr Speaker, two days ago I began my visit by going to Arlington National Cemetery, the final resting place of many brave soldiers of this great land. I honour their courage and sacrifice for the ideals of freedom and democracy. It was also the 72nd anniversary of the D-Day. On that day, thousands from this great country fought to protect the torch of liberty. They sacrificed their lives so that the world lives in freedom. I applaud, India applauds the great sacrifices of the men and women from the land of the free and the home of the brave in service of mankind. [PM Modi applauds the Congress with claps]. India knows what this means, because our soldiers have fallen in distant battlefields for the same ideals. That is why the threads of freedom and liberty form a strong bond between our two democracies.Mr Speaker, our nations may have been shaped by diverse histories, cultures and faiths, yet our belief in democracy for our nations and our liberty for our countrymen is common. The idea that all citizens are related equal is the central pillar of the American constitution. Our founding fathers too shared the same belief and sought individual liberty for every citizen of India. There were many who doubted India as a newly independent nation. We reposed our faith in democracy.Indeed, wagers were made on our future. But the people of India did not waiver. Our founders created a modern nation with freedom, democracy and equality  as the essence of its soul, and in doing so we they assured that we continue to celebrate our age old diversity. Today, across its individuals and institutions, and in its villages and cities, in streets and states,  are anchored in equal respect for all faiths. And in the melody of hundreds of its languages and dialects, India lives as one, India grows as one, India celebrates as one.Mr Speaker, modern India is in its 70th year. For my government, the constitution is its real holy book. And in that holy book, freedom of faith, speech and franchise, and equality of all citizens, regardless of background are enshrined as fundamental rights.Eight hundred million of my countrymen may exercise the freedom of franchise once every five years, but all the 1.25 billion of our citizens have freedom from fear - a freedom they exercise every moment of their lives.Distinguished members, engagement between our two democracies has been visible in the manner in which our thinkers impacted one another and shaped the course of our societies. Thoreau's idea of civil disobedience influenced our political thoughts and similarly the call by the great sage of India Swami Vivekanand to embrace humanity, was most famously delivered in Chicago. Gandhi's non-violence inspired the heroism of Martin Luther King.
 
